It is a really good Shamatha meditation. And the Shamatha generally is a sangra role, which means,
which you all know, the focus of it, but calmly abiding. Shamatha in it really is called the Shineh
.
And the Shineh is always said, in order to have the good Shamatha meditation, you have two
obstacles,
three principal kind of hindrance of the Shamatha, is the distractions.
Distractions is the obstacle for the Shamatha meditations. So there is how many?
First maybe there is two, obviously. First distraction is physical, physical distractions.
First verbal distractions, the physical verbal distractions. And the second, third is then mental
distractions.
And those are in the debate. And mind, body, and speech are free from the engaging activities of
the Jaws things.
So that is, you are now free from that. Now you start meditating.
Meditating, while you are meditating, our mind is again completely destroyed by the consumption
support.
Then our Shamatha will not become good, stable. So we have to free from two things.
From the Mandic Jaws activity, busyness activity, and as well as free from the conceptions.
So this is a true free from. Once you have that pre-preach, then you are going to meditate.
And always in the teaching said, when you do meditation, think of the physical body, think of the
speech, verbal, think of the mind.
So these three things you have to think. Now think of the body, think of the, have good postures.
Always there is a good posture. Those are seven postures of the Buddha, Venerable Jaws.
And that many of you already know, seven postures. So sitting, simple literature, sitting on a
cushion, we have cushion.
And then straight up, straight up, and then elbows up in the meditation postures or relaxing mind
postures.
Put that with palms on the knees, like this, straight up, or elbows, the palms put together and
below, never centers.
And then third is, third posture of the Buddha, Venerable Jaws is extending the shoulder.
So that means the shoulders are not hovered, and kind of extend, extend and extend your chest a
little bit more.
And the fourth one is, straight up your back spine, straight up, kind of keep up exactly straight
up.
And this fifth posture is, then next on the backside, this backside or the front, just a little bit
same, and bend slightly towards that, but it lines up our spine.
And that is, I think, fifth. Sixth is, and looking towards tip of nose, nose, and then seventh is,
keep the breathing normal and touch your tongue, tip of the tongue, upper root of the jaw.
Yeah, those are, in the teaching said, seven posture of the Buddha, Venerable Jaws.
What it does in the teaching said, it will balance the channels.
When channels are balanced, that means nerves, our own nerves are balanced. Nerve balance is what
it does.
Then our energy, moving wind will balance. When wind is a little more balanced, it will naturally
help to calm down our mind.
So those are the body postures. And the speech of postures and the teaching said, then you know, do
yourself alone.
Do the breathing purification exercise. Clear way all the included areas that we are wondering,
hovering in the channels.
Clear way those breathing purification exercises. Clear way. Do those gently, slowly.
What the pollution air? Pollution air of the anger. Pollution air of the attachment. Pollution air
of the ignorance.
And pollution combination of that. In the teaching said, those air or those energies are hovering
on the surface.
For example, when you look at the space, when the sky is polluted, you can see it not able. It's
not too far.
All our, so our body is polluted. The channels are polluted with these emotions.
So when you do the breathing purification exercise, you clear that. And also you can meditate that.
It's all unclear. Posture and clear with all the polluted air of the related with the anger.
And the second, when you do polluted air related with the attachment. Third is polluted air of the
ignorance.
Do those three times, so you can do that. And then, those are known as the balance of the speech.
That's what the teaching says. Why the speech? Well, the speech is A. Of course, what the teaching,
what the teaching means, you know, how the speech accounts.
It's speaking because it poses the mind. Second is when the mind activates the wind.
And that wind and the mind are both pulled and then echoing or ejecting to the, to the nerve system
and then the voice comes up.
So fundamentally, it is so sound, it is really the mind coming. But then it is supported to
activate that with wind and the channels, the nerve system.
So therefore, it is the mind. And then balance of the mind. Now, that is so important.
Even we have the perfect both postures and perfect those balance of our ears. We don't keep the
balance of the mind.
Then, really, it's just not too much meanings. So therefore, now, so important to keep the balance
of the mind.
That is then meditation. That is it. And meditation, there are so many meditations or so many samad
his in teaching method.
But every summarize, the great master Kamala Shala said also too, said all the Buddha's teachings
of samadhis meditation can summarize into two.
And that is also a great teacher. Buddha himself said too, all meditation, every day can be
summarized into two.
What those two are? This is the shamata in the vipassana. So now, vipassana meditate.
The first, sorry, shamata meditate. Shamata meditate, as I said, is the first stage.
Shamata meditate, what it does, we are taming our mind.
Our wild restless mind, we now try to train. As like those horse timers, train the horse.
Or elephant timers, train the elephant. Similarly, we are taming the mind.
Our wild mindful. What means the wild is restless mind. Mind is restless.
It just goes everywhere. Can't stop. Even one second. Second, that's our mind.
And that is treblered. Where is it happening? On the surface. Like ocean.
Ocean surface is just so much like sometimes wind comes. Then it just stirs.
But according to the teaching, the deep down ocean, it stays always calm.
It's only that happening on the surface.
Similarly, this treblered of the mind moving is only on the surface.
Deep of the mind is Buddha nature. Beautiful, strange, calm, peaceful, soothing.
That's what it is. So now, this, but even though deep of the mind is so calm and peaceful,
all calling it, we cannot penetrate. We can reach today.
Because it completely blocks this treblered of the mind.
Buddhism is the mind. Therefore, then we are training ourself. Taming our mind.
What does the Ganesha teacher Buddha say? Subjugated one's own mind.
This is the teaching of the Buddha. So we are subjugating. We are taming the mind.
What is subjugating? Wild thought. Wild conception.
We bring to the gentle, peaceful states. That is what.
So, Shama the meditation. And that Shama the meditation has two meditations.
They are called Shama the meditation with the correct stress
and with all the correct stress.
In the Tibetan, Shama the meditation is two hours.
Two Shama the meditations.
And the fourth is, for example, correct stress.
That means you are going to concentrate, hold something.
And many times in the teaching meditation, you can do them in two ways.
One is with breathing or other is you can concentrate on the Buddha images.
And we have the Buddha stages.
Even if you don't have the Buddha stages, you know the Buddha.
You see the Buddha stage right in front of you, in the you.
There is the Buddha stage. Buddha is residing.
Master Danda was the land of body. Full of love, full of compassion.
And full of kindness and blessings.
And it's just so brilliant.
So color is like a golden mountain.
What in the Samadhyar suttara that we joined in the morning,
the Buddha's hand, the great Master Mohan Madhya,
both that is quotation there.
Buddha is so beautiful.
Every aspect is so pleasing to see, or pleasing to see.
And color is a golden color.
And concentrated on that image of the Bhutva image of the Buddha.
That is the meditation of the bodhisattvas.
That's what the teacher said.
So when we meditate, either on the third eye spot of the Buddha
or the heart center of the Buddha.
Concentrate, feel strongly and concentrate.
That means, concentrate on me, you all know.
Your mind is now with the Buddha's heart or Buddha's third eye spot.
No, no, not anywhere else.
That is, for example, we are anchoring down our willingness mind.
And not letting to go to anywhere is running all the time.
We are taming the mind, time, T-A-M-I-N-G.
Taming the mind while in mind.
So concentrate on that.
And hope how long it can stay.
Stay like that.
But at the beginning of time, even if you have that concentrate on that,
mind won't stay because of due to all our kind of where we be.
Mind is activating.
It's because it is his own habit.
He will be again running away.
Again, moment you see, come back, same way.
No complaining, no comforting, no making any kind of wise, this and that.
Concentrate on that spot.
Keep doing that.
Keep doing that without any kind of feel bad or all that.
At the beginning of time, in the teaching, there are five different experiences in meditation.
When you do the Shama, when you know, when we do the Shama, the meditation,
five different experiences will come.
very, very experienced.